So, so
far we've talked about
Exploratory data collection.
We've talked about
Descriptive data collection.
Next, we want to move on
to Causal data collection.
As you notice, this type of data
collection is more stringent.
Let me give you an example.
Many times when you're
thinking about our websites,
of our companies,
you think about the landing pages.
Think about is landing page A,
better than landing page B?
How do we determine that?
That's where you might want
to do a field experiment.
Some set of customers see landing page A.
Another set of customers
see landing page B.
We look at the click through rates, and
then decide which landing page is better.
In other words,
we are trying to make causal link between
changing the landing page, and
looking at the click through rate.
That's what causality is all about and
that's what field
experiments are all about.
So there are many companies that allow
you to do this type of A B testing.
For example,
we start thinking about A B testing
you need to start distinguishing
between correlation and causation.
Correlation is the relationship
between two variables.
So let's take price and sales.
Are sales and
prices correlated, probably so.
If prices go down,
sales might drop as well.
Causation is one variable
producing an effect in the other.
Correlation and
causation are not the same thing.
Let's take some concrete
examples to try and
understand the difference between
correlation and causation.
For us correlation and
causation there are three requirements if
you start thinking about causal inference.
First of all is there
a correlation at all?
That's basically evidence of
association between X and Y.
Let's say X is price, Y is sales,
is there a relationship between them?
But that's not enough for causation.
There are two other requirements as well.
One is temporal antecedents,
X must happen before Y.
So if you want to say price changes drives
sales, we need to be able to say that
price changes are good before
sales changes happened.
And finally there is no third factor
driving both of them, In other words,
you need to control for
other possible factors.
So let's take an example to try and
understand the relationship
between the two and
what's the difference between the two.
So there's a popular story that storks,
for example, bring babies.
It typically started in the colder
countries where they used to see, for
example, a bunch of storks going through,
and suddenly landing on a house, and
you know a few months later
you see a baby in the house.
Well, are storks really bringing babies?
Well let's try to understand each
of the different elements and
see whether there is causation
going on at all, okay?
If you start thinking about correlation,
well there might be some
kind of correlation.
You see houses on which
storks are sitting.
You see babies in that house.
Are they related?
They are related.
But is it causation?
That's the key question.
For the one hand, there is correlation.
Storks and babies in the same house.
Is there temporal antecedent?
That's true as well.
Storks come in,
babies come in a little bit later.
But is there a third factor driving both?
And that's where, for example, causation
and correlation comes in differently.
What's the key question?
Typically we start thinking about why our
storks sitting at a particular house.
Typically the answer might be,
and this is in colder countries,
typically the answer might be
because those houses are warmer.
Then you start thinking about
why are those houses warmer?
Typically those houses might be warmer
because they have pregnant women in them.
in other words, there is a third factor.
Houses being reasonable warm that
means the stork is coming and
sit on top of that house and see a baby
coming a few months later in that house.
It's about correlation but
definitely not about causation.
So that's the key difference when
you start thinking about correlation
versus causation.
Now, when you start thinking about
the overall story, you start also thinking
about many other companies that can
help you distinguish between the two.
The key idea to distinguish between these
two is to start doing field experiments.
In other words, you start
systematically manipulating prices.
You start systematically
manipulating landing pages
to see how they might
have a causal impact.
So there are many companies out there
that will help you do this AB testing.
So a simple example might be,
if you start thinking about two pages,
landing page A versus landing page B, how
do you distinguish which page is better?
Well, here's what, ideally,
you would like to do.
One set of customers coming to your
website, will see landing page A.
Another set of customers, randomly chosen,
will see another landing page,
landing page B.
Then over time,
you see the click through rate.
You see the purchases.
That can help you determine
which landing page is better.
This is precisely what many
companies help you do.
For example Optimizely is one company
that will help you this AB testing,
it'll help you understand which landing
page is better, in other words, monetize
overall landing pages and figure out which
page you should be showing your customers.
There are many, many other companies
as well which do the same thing.
Overall, when you look at,
at this particular space, many companies
are starting to help out other companies
in terms of landing page design,
in terms of overall optimization of
the webpage, and so on so forth.
So there are many companies that
help you do mobile AB testing.
What's the idea here?
Basically, on a mobile site, you also want
to answer what landing pages are better,
which icon should be shown, and so on.
So a company like Optimizely
will help you do that.
And it also has many of the companies
that might do the same thing.
For example, Leanplum is another
company that does the same thing, and
there are many,
many other competitors as well.
So when you start thinking about the
pricing plan of these different companies,
the starter plans typically are free.
So you can do a lot of
A B testing on its own.
But if you start thinking about
your overall landing pages,
you start thinking about
the overall funnel of purchase,
that's when you start paying the big
money which is the enterprise package.
What are the kinds of
questions that can help,
that can be answered
using this type of data?
First one is, website optimization.
What kind of websites?
What landing pages,
what icons should shown, and so on.
How should they be optimized?
Second, you can start thinking
about mobile app design.
Many companies are coming
out with mobile apps.
How should they be best designed?
And of course,
you can take it to the extreme.
You can start thinking about how should
you design the app in general, but
you can also start thinking
about what version to the app
should be shown to different customers.
The extreme case would
be one to one marketing.
Very broadly, all these companies help you
collect data by doing field experiments.
In other words, you're systematically
manipulating landing pages.
You might be manipulating checkout
pages and so on, so forth to try and
understand how these systematic changes
cause changes in customer behavior.
So what have we done so
far in this module?
We've looked at three different
kinds of data collection,
which go hand in hand with different
types of marketing decisions.
First, we started off with
exploratory data collection,
where we talked about focus groups,
we talked about Internet communities.
Then we went into descriptive
type of data selection.
We talked about surveys,
we talked about point of sales data,
we talked about data related to
media planning and so on, so forth.
And then we ended up with
talking about causality.
In other words,
we talked about field experiments and
other company which help
you with field experiments.
So when you start thinking about
the overall summary of this module,
it's about data.
But, more importantly,
it's a synergy between the type of
questions you need to answer, and the type
of data that's best suited to answer it.
It's very,
very important to think about the synergy
as you start thinking about the type
of data you would like to get.
If the question you'd like to answer
is more exploratory in nature,
you do focus groups,
you can do internet communities.
If the type of question you want to answer
is more descriptive, in other words,
you want to get concrete numbers
in terms of share of wallet,
in terms of share of voice,
then the type of data you need to collect
is quite different from
the exploratory type of data.
And finally, if the question that you
need to answer is more causal in nature.
For example, if I changed my landing page,
what would happen?
Then the type of data you need to collect
would be more along the lines of field
experiments.
So it's very important to
keep the managerial goal and
the the type of data collection in mind
because they're highly synergistic.